- [Instructor] So now, let's connect an application
to a data source.
So the first thing that we want to do is we want to run
the start_postgres script in the bin directory
of the exercise files.
And what this is going to do is it's going to run
a Postgres database and populate it with some data.
You'll see all of the insert statements that are executed
that let you know that the data has actually
been inserted into the database.
So now, let's jump over to our IDE.
And we're going to go ahead and go back to our command app,
and we're going to start from there.
So the first thing to do in this application
is to open up the pom file.
And we're going to add a couple elements to our pom file.
Go ahead and remove the rest easy 'cause we don't need that.
The first dependency that we're going to add
is quarkus.agroal
And that comes from io.quarkus.
And then we're going to bring in our database driver,
which is quarkus-jdbc-postgres.
And again, io.corcus.
And we will allow Maven to do its dependency management.
Okay, now that that is done,
let's open up source main resources,
our application or properties file.
And we're going to put in a few properties in here.
So quarkus.datasource.db-kind.
And the db-kind is going to be postgresql.
Now, let's add in quarkus.datasource.username.
And the username is going to be postgres.
And the password is also going to be postgres.
And these come from the Dockerfile script that I included
in the exercise files.
Now, the next one
that we want to do quarkus.datasource.jdbc.url.
And we need to pass it in a fully qualified JDBC URL,
which is jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432.
And this is the dev database.
And the last element that we're going to put in
is jdbc.max-size.
And we're going to set our max size equal to 16
just because it'll work fine with that.
Okay, now that our application properties are set up,
let's go to source main Java and into our directory.
We're going to create a new class
and we're going to call this Room.
And room class is going to have a couple elements.
Private String name, private String roomNumber,
and private String bedInfo.
Now, I'm going to generate a constructor.
And I'm also going to generate a constructor
with all of the parameters.
Now, I'm using a built-in function in my IDE.
Yours will have the same thing.
I get mine from hitting Ctrl + Enter.
Each ID is a little bit different.
And it's different for each operating system,
but you will have the ability to generate constructors,
getters and setters.
And then the last thing I'm going to do
just for simplicity is I'm going to add a two-string method
and I'm just going to use concatenation, excellent.
So now that our room class is done,
now we can jump back into our CommandRunner.
And there's a few things here that we need to inject.
So the first thing that we're going to inject is a data source.
And we will simply call that datasource.
And I've done my method here.
We're going to do a few things.
Let's get rid of this hello statement.
And let's put an SQL statement here instead.
And it's going to be SELCET NAME, ROOM_NUMBER, BED_INFO.
And these all come from the schema file that's included
in the exercise files if you want to refer to them, FROM ROOM.
Now, let's build a try debug here.
The first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to go to Connection from our data source.
Now, look at that, connection from java.sql.
And then we are going to do a try.
And in the try, we're going to create a statement,
connection.CreateStatement
That statement is going to come from java.sql.
And now we will do a result set,
stat.excecuteQuery
and we'll pass in our SQL.
And then while resultset.next
Now, before we populate our rooms
we need to go create a holder for our room.
So let's jump back above this try.
Let's create a list of room elements.
And we will just do an array list.
Now, down in this block, we can do a rooms.add, a new room.
And we are simply going to call resultset.getstringname,
resultset.getstring, sending it room number.
And then let's scroll this up a little bit.
And then the final element will be resultset.getstring
and we will pass it in BED_INFO.
And we'll finish off this with a catch block
of SQLException.
And we will simply do a printstackTrace.
Now, what we want to do here now is do a rooms.forEach
and we will do a system.out::println.
And now, we're good to go.
So if we run our application,
what we should see is it will pull all the rooms
from the database and print them out.
So let's go ahead and run our application.
And again, I'm running it through my IDE.
You can do it directly from the command line
using a Maven command.
Several ways to run this, but this is how I'm doing it.
And you will see that it output all of our room information
from the database.
And you can validate that this is indeed
the room information by looking at the data
of that SQL file where we populated all of it.
And that's all there is to connecting to a database
from your application.